At the very end.
A last video I had opened up the tickets index file and I'd mentioned that we still had a URL right
here to connect to the incorrect MongoDB instance.
So this is definitely really bad.
We've got some code inside of here that could have very easily gone on caught.
We might have accidentally deployed this ticket service into production and had it connect to the wrong
MongoDB database.
Definitely not good.
So let's try to figure out some way to solve this and catch issues like this in the future.
Here's one way we could do it very easily.
You might recall that back inside of our infra directory if we open up our tickets deployment file.
When we define this pod spec right here, we have the ability to define some different environment variables.
I think that one easy way to solve this issue potentially in the future would be to add in the URL to
connect to as an environment variable.
So let's try doing that right now.
We're going to make this change both to our ticket service and to the authentication one as well, because
the authentication service is also doing the same thing.
It's got a hard coded URL right there.
We're going to first start with the ticket stuff, so make sure you are inside of the tickets deployment
file and make sure you have open the indexed file inside of the tickets directory.
Make sure you're not changing the wrong files right now.
Okay.
So inside of the tickets deployment file.
I'm going to find the EMV section.
We're going to add in a new environment variable right here.
I'm going to add in a new variable with the name of Mongo underscore Uri.
And then I'm going to set its value directly right here.
So I'm going to put in value.
I'm going to go back over to my ticket's indexed file.
I'm going to find that URL right there.
I'm going to cut it.
I'll then go back over to the deployment file and paste in that string.
Now this string is still referencing the authentication MongoDB instance.
So let's update that and make sure we are connecting to the tickets, one that we just created the deployment
file for a moment ago.
If you need a reminder inside of our tickets, MongoDB or Mongo double file, we can take a look at
the name of the service at the bottom.
The name of the service is tickets, Mongo CRV.
That is what we are trying to connect to so we can find off Mongo XLV and update it to tickets.
And then remember inside of a MongoDB database, there can technically be multiple different databases.
That's what the name right here at the very end is referring to.
That's the name of the database inside of this database that we're trying to create.
So we're going to update that to tickets not strictly required.
We can have a database name of anything we want, but I found it's usually best to just put some consistent
name inside there.
Now one thing I want to mention is that we have now hardcoded a connection URL inside of a deployment
file.
If we were to commit this file right now to get and then say push it up to GitHub, anyone in the world
would be able to see this URL right here.
Is that a problem?
I would really strongly argue.
No.
It is not an issue.
Although there is a URL right here.
This URL is only accessible if someone is inside of our cluster.
The only reason I would be concerned about putting my URL right here as a plain string out online is
if there was a username and password associated or required to log in or connect to this MongoDB instance.
If there was a username and password required, I would definitely not want to write it out right here
as plain text.
But as long as we are just connecting to some plain URL without any security around it, and as long
as we also have this deployment file that very plainly spells out exactly how to connect to this thing,
I again, I'm going to strongly argue and say, no, it's really not an issue to put this thing right
here as a plain string.
If we did care about that, if we had a username and password authentication scheme with MongoDB, then
all we'd have to do is define this environment variable inside of a secret, just as we did with the
JSON web token key.
So that should be it, at least for the deployment file.
So I'm going to save the ticket's deployment file and close it.
I'm now left inside of my ticket's indexed file.
So inside of here, we need to make sure that we try to connect to the MongoDB instance with the URI
that is provided inside that environment variable.
You might recall that before we can access any environment variable, we do have to make sure that it
actually is defined.
Otherwise TypeScript is going to get really unhappy with us.
So I'm going to do another very similar check to what we did before.
I'm going to say if not process EMV Mongo URI.
Now let's throw a new air.
And I'll say Mongo, you or I must be defined.
And then we can pass the environment variable in as the first argument to Mongoose connect the process
of Mongo.
You're right.
All right.
So let's save this.
I'm going to go back over to my terminal and I just want to take a look at scaffold and make sure that
everything booted up just fine.
Yep.
Looks like it definitely did.
Now to test this and make sure that we actually are connecting to Mongo through that environment variable,
I could go back over to the deployment file for tickets I could find where we just defined that environment
variable and comment that out.
If I then save this file scaffold should update the deployment that will cause our pod to be recreated
without the environment variable.
And then we should see an error at our terminal.
And before I save this and confirm that everything is working as expected, I want you to know I have
noticed some really strange inconsistencies with setting environment variables and then changing them
or removing them.
So if I do not immediately see an error, I'm not going to be super concerned right away.
We should see an error, but if I don't, I might be able to solve the issue by just restarting scaffold.
Long story short, let's just save this and see what happens.
So I'll save the file.
I'm going to flip back over.
I'll see that the deployment was configured.
Then we should see a new pod being created.
I know this is a new pod because it has a different ID than the previous one running our tickets pod.
And now in this scenario.
Yeah, it looks like it's not quite working as expected here.
I should not have been able to connect to MongoDB.
I should have gotten an error saying that Mongo URI is not defined.
One way to try to fix this, I can go back over to the index file and I'm going to try to just hard
save this file again so I can hit command s.
Scaffold is going to think that the file was just updated and it should try to sync the file, which
should cause node to restart my server.
So I'll flip back over.
And now it looks like yeah, it did work right here.
So I see that error but also looks like for some reason my server also started back up successfully
anyways.
So again I have noticed some weirdness around doing these environment variable checks.
It only seems to be occurring once you start to initially make that change.
But the next time you restart scaffold, usually it seems like the issue goes away.
Just to prove that I'm going to stop scaffold, everything gets deleted.
I'm going to wait for everything to actually be terminated.
And for some reason, it always seems to take a little bit too long.
Here we go.
I'll start it back up.
And now when my ticket service starts back up, all this environment variable stuff should be fixed,
so I should see an air start to appear right away if it is not defined.
And there we go.
There's the big error.
Mongo uri must be defined and I just keep getting that air and air again because scaffold keeps on trying
to restart my pod.
Or to be more precise, the deployment does and I just keep throwing the same air over and over.
So this is definitely a good improvement for making sure that we capture and just recognize that, oh
yeah, we need to update this MongoDB, you or I, any time that we start to copy paste this stuff over
to another service.
So last step, I'm going to uncomment that.
I'm going to save the file.
I'll go back over to my terminal.
And now I should be back to seeing everything working correctly.
Very good.
All right, quick pause right here.
We're then going to go over to our service and do the exact same thing.
We're going to set up an environment variable.
We're going to reference that environment variable inside of our index file, all inside of auth.
That'll be really quick, I promise.
So let's take care of it in just a moment.